{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2511
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh18000\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl660\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs48 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Abstract:\'c2\'a0
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \'c2\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Disordered eating is both a high prevalence and high impact disease. In spite of the success of the development of continuous eating detection systems, the eating characteristics that differentiate normal from healthy eaters remain unknown. By quantifying various eating related characteristics, we uncover a more comprehensive profile of the complex behavior that leads to disordered eating. To this end, we performed a free-living experiment in which we integrated data from both a smart watch and NeckSense sensor suite to identify various eating-related characteristics. Specifically, we integrated these data to quantify eating speed, identify social vs. solitary eating behavior by voice recognition, and categorize posture while eating (standing, sitting). We also investigated whether the detect body-focused repetitive behaviors such as nail biting, which is a common comorbidity with eating disorders and mental health. By moving beyond simple eating detection into quantifying various eating related characteristics, we provide a more comprehensive profile of the complex behavior that leads to disordered eating.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \'c2\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl660\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs48 \cf2 Introduction and Related Work:
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs37\fsmilli18667 \cf2 \cb1 Detection of eating and drinking arm gestures using inertial body-worn sensors 
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl660\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Obesity is a global epidemic of enormous consequence, affecting over 500 million people worldwide and predisposing them for cancer, heart disease and diabetes. In addition, the global outlook continues to worsen, with the global age-standardized bmi growing 2.1 kg m-2 from 1985 to 2017 (rural). The growing importance of this problem has motivated researchers and clinicians to innovate new treatments that could help reverse this trend. Continuous eating detection systems (CDS), in particular, have garnered attention as they promise to provide a bonanza of behavioral data that could drive novel data-driven, personalized treatment. Further, CDSs could provide the foundation for novel real-time interventions, which are a class of treatments that have proven to be effective.
\f1\fs24 \
\

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 CDSs are user-worn sensors that utilize user produced data to detect eating behavior. So far, researchers have found a variety of approaches, including motion based, camera based, and ear can detect eating with moderate to high accuracy. However, many of these devices have not been tested or are less effective in naturalistic experiments. In addition, many are either cumbersome, or carry a social stigma that limits widespread use. Lastly, most of these devices aim purely to detect eating events, and stop short of providing the context that characterizes these eating events. This contextual information, such as the quantity of food consumed, the speed at which it is consumed, or whether eating is social or solitary, have all been linked to obesity, and thus would be crucial in developing personalized interventions. Thus, it is critical that we develop a wearable that is effective outside of a lab, discrete or social acceptable to wear, and collects information on eating context in addition to eating events.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \'c2\'a0\
\'c2\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 With this goal in mind we propose a composite approach, consisting of a NeckSense sensor suite, and a smartwatch. The NeckSense sensor suite is a necklace consisting of a ____. It has been shown to be highly effective at detecting eating in a free-living context, and is discreet and unobtrusive to wear. We combine NeckSense with data collected from a Smartwatch, which are equipped with a wide variety of sensors including. In addition to being powerful, Smartwatches are comfortable and socially acceptable to wear, perhaps even fashionable, with X number of people already owning some kind of wrist. We expect that together, the NeckSense and smartwatch will be able to detect eating with high accuracy, as well as the context that surrounds eating events, discretely and unobtrusively. We hope this integrated dataset will both elucidate behaviors that may lead to obesity, and empower novel, data-driven personal interventions.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \'c2\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 Passive monitoring Because of the clinical value of eating monitoring systems, there has been extensive research into the detection of eating using a variety of approaches. Many of these solutions have been able to identify eating behaviors with high accuracy. However. These are of critical importance as speed of eating has been linked to obesity (EMG paper) A variety of technologies
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \'c2\'a0\
\'c2\'a0\
\'c2\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl660\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs48 \cf2 Methods Part 1: Study design
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \'c2\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 To ensure our findings would represent real life behavior in the everyday settings in which they are of interest, we chose to conduct a free-living study to test our device. In a free-living study, participants go about their normal daily routines while wearing test devices. To ensure our algorithms generalized across individuals, all members of our research team, three male and one female students at Northwestern University, volunteered for our free-living study. Our ages ranged between (20-25) and all of a healthy weight. After being trained by our instructors on how to use the devices, we went about our everyday lives, collecting data on as many meals or snacks as possible. We permitted ourselves to turn off the sensor suite for situations where continuous monitoring might be cumbersome, inappropriate, or personal.
\f1\fs24 \
}